Add Katello 5.0 release notes (#5190)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/doc-Release_Notes/topics/katello.adoc

[id="katello-headline-features"]
== Headline features

Content Credentials are now generally available::
+
--
Content Credentials have been moved out of the Labs section and are now a fully supported feature.

> The legacy Angular-based pages have been replaced with a modern PatternFly 5 interface, including create and delete functionality directly from the Content Credentials overview page.

Reviewer: There's already a "Content Credentials" page on Foreman 3.19 + Katello 4.21:

<img width="592" height="591" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7f72e9fc-8668-4125-adc2-488e716993f4" />

I suggest to reword this slightly to emphasise on the rework rather than "new" aspect. With a first read, it sounds more like a new things.

Reviewer 2: If it helps @zjhuntin, we already have a downstream release note for this (https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/SAT-21593 -- private, unfortunately, at least for now)

--

> Container gateway sync on containerized smart proxies::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Container gateway sync on containerized {SmartProxies}::
```

+
--

> Katello now supports synchronizing the container gateway on containerized smart proxies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Katello now supports synchronizing the container gateway on containerized {SmartProxies}.
```

> Previously this was only supported for smart proxies installed via RPM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously this was only supported for {SmartProxies} installed through RPM.
```

--

DEB tracer support::
+
--
The Host Details Traces tab now supports DEB content, bringing DEB host management to parity with RPM hosts.
--

Performance improvements for large deployments::
+
--
Missing indexes have been added to content facet join tables, significantly improving performance for deployments with large numbers of hosts.
Host collection membership updates have also been optimized to scale better on large collections.
Redundant Candlepin requests during host registration have been eliminated to improve registration performance.
--

Errata application tracking::
+
--
Errata applications are now tracked in the database, enabling accurate reporting on applied errata and improving the Applied Errata report.
--

[id="katello-upgrade-warnings"]
== Upgrade warnings

Deprecated API parameters removed::
+
--

> The deprecated `content_view_id` and `lifecycle_environment_id` parameters have been removed from the Hosts, Activation Keys, and Host Groups API endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deprecated `content_view_id` and `lifecycle_environment_id` parameters have been removed from the hosts, activation keys, and host groups API endpoints.
```

Use the `content_view_environment_id` parameter instead.
--

API error response format change::
+
--
The `displayMessage` field in Katello API error responses has been renamed to `message`.
Update any scripts or integrations that parse `displayMessage` from Katello API error responses.
--

Dependency solving disabled by default for incremental updates::
+
--
Dependency solving is now disabled by default when performing incremental content view updates.
Users who require dependency solving for incremental updates must explicitly enable it.
--

Pulp 2 code removed::
+
--
All remaining Pulp 2 code has been removed from Katello.

> Smart proxies must be running Pulp 3 before upgrading to Katello {KatelloVersion}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{SmartProxies} must be running Pulp 3 before upgrading to Katello {KatelloVersion}.
```

> Smart proxies must be running Pulp 3 before upgrading to Katello {KatelloVersion}.

Reviewer 3: While this comment is true, it does make it sound like we supported Pulp 2 in 4.21 heh. The removals I believe were all internal and not noticeable to users.

Author: ACK removed.

> --

Reviewer 4: Also worth a mention: The Subscriptions page and Add Subscriptions pages have been migrated to use modern PF5 components.

Author: Added!

--

DEB tracer support::
+
--
The Host Details Traces tab now supports DEB content, bringing DEB host management to parity with RPM hosts.
--

Subscriptions page migrated to PatternFly 5::
+
--
The Subscriptions and Add Subscriptions pages have been migrated to use modern PatternFly 5 components, providing a more consistent experience with other redesigned pages.
--

Post-quantum cryptography content support::
+
--
Katello can now synchronize and distribute RHEL 10 content signed with the Module-Lattice-Based Digital Signature Standard (ML-DSA), a post-quantum cryptography algorithm.
This ensures that you can consume quantum-resistant content without changes to your existing workflows.
--

Performance improvements for large deployments::
+
--
Missing indexes have been added to content facet join tables, significantly improving performance for deployments with large numbers of hosts.
Host collection membership updates have also been optimized to scale better on large collections.
Redundant Candlepin requests during host registration have been eliminated to improve registration performance.
--

Errata application tracking::
+
--

> Errata applications are now tracked in the database, enabling accurate reporting on applied errata and improving the Applied Errata report.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Errata applications are now tracked in the database, improving the Applied Errata report so that purging old tasks does not cause errata applications to be omitted from the report.
```

Author: Applied, thanks!

* For registering hosts to {ProjectServer}, use {ManagingHostsDocURL}registering-hosts-by-using-global-registration[Registering hosts by using global registration] in _{ManagingHostsDocTitle}_.

> * For deploying custom SSL certificates to hosts, use {ManagingHostsDocURL}refreshing-the-self-signed-ca-certificate-on-hosts[Refreshing the self-signed CA certificate on hosts] in _{ManagingHostsDocTitle}_.

Reviewer 2: These links do not exist for 5.0 yet. @ogajduse, at which point of the release process will the 5.0 HTML be deployed? Looking at https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/blob/532a996e6813a2f90a25a2f92e4c2631a4c79053/README.md?plain=1#L97, it looks like the [landing page](https://docs.theforeman.org/release/5.0/) works, but the [individual guides](https://docs.theforeman.org/5.0/Managing_Hosts/index-katello.html) don't. I'd prefer not to publish release notes with links that are not working yet.

Reviewer 5: That's a miss on my side. I should have verified that the pages landed correctly.
So, here is the fix for that: 

- https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/5214 (master)
- https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/5215/changes (5.0)
